#summary Ideas for future libraries to add here, and notes about libraries in the pre-release state.

= Pre-Release = 

These are libraries that are in the development project but aren't yet ready for release.

  * ArcGISLink: Library to connect ArcGIS Server/Services with Google Maps. Nianwei developed this.
    * Code: Done.
    * Docs: Done, but awaiting a round of edits from the Maps API tech writer.
    * Examples: Done.
  * !ExtStreetviewControl: Library that creates a mini-streetview in the corner of the map, similar to the overview map. Masashi is working on this.
    * Code: Need to make sure it's not doing DOM hacking or using undocumented API functions. Need to generate packed version.
    * Docs: None. Need to auto-generate reference and have how-to page with examples.
    * Examples: There are enough examples, but the files need to be renamed to something more descriptive.
  * !GeometryControl: !MyMaps-like control using the poly editing classes. Chris Marx is working on it, and it's nearly ready for release. 
  * !MultiIconMaker: Library to make it easier to do markers with hover states. We're debating whether it's worth it to offer this as a standalone library.
  * !PopUpMarker: Library that creates mini-infowindow markers, using the Chart API output. Masashi is working on it.
    * Code: Done.
    * Docs: Done.
    * Examples: Chartstylemarker.html isn't working consistently anymore. 
  * !ProjectedOverlay: Like GGroundOverlay, but assumes a pre-projected image, so it doesn't try to re-project it using CSS. John Coryat authored this.
    * Code: Needs comments, needs to pass jslint.
    * Docs: None so far. Reference needs to be auto-generated, examples page needs to be made.
    * Examples: None checked in. Several available from John, however. Need to be checked in, script tag adjusted to enable ?packed checking.
  * !SlideshowControl: Control for automatically playing through all markers on a map. Pamela authored this.
    * Code: Needs comments, needs to pass jslint.
    * Docs: None so far. Reference needs to be auto-generated, examples page needs to be made.
    * Examples: 1 so far. It'd help to have one more example showing different usage.
  * !SnapShotControl: Library to make it easy to create printable version of a map. Masashi is working on it.
    * Code: Needs comments, needs to pass jslint.
    * Docs: None so far. Reference needs to be auto-generated, examples page needs to be made.
    * Examples: Done
  * !TabbedMaxContent: Library to make it easy to put tabs inside a mega-infowindow, like on Google Maps. Nianwei is working on it.
    * Code: Done.
    * Docs: Done.
    * Examples: Done.


= Pre-Dev =

These are libraries that are somewhere on the web/in the ether, but haven't been checked in yet to the development project. In some cases, we may need to contact the author about joining the project.

  * !OverviewMapControl: Gabriel is working on open-sourcing our internal code for this.
  * ZMarker: Esa has been working on this, we should get it in here.
  * !ExtPolyGraph: An abstraction for GPolyline- and GMarker-based [http://en.wikipedia.org/wiki/Graph_%28mathematics%29 graphs].  I did an undirected implementation for creating and editing [http://xkcd.com/85/ sidewalk] data.
  * !OpacityControl: See [http://code.google.com/apis/maps/documentation/demogallery.html demo].

= Ideas =

Any ideas of completely non-existent libraries can go here...